---
title: 'Teaching Digital Electronics at Ashesi'
date: 2025-03-22
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

Ashesi University is developing a masters program in Mechatronics Engineering in collaboration with ETH Zurich, where lecturers from ETH travel to Ghana to teach half of the program. Unlike the semesters that we're used to, teaching there happens in blocks - one course at a time, with a week to recover in between. While I went as the sole lecturer to teach first-year Digital Electronics last year, this year I co-lectured with Cindy Karina, also a PhD student affiliated with the Computational Nanoelectronics group. 

This block-course format makes teaching at Ashesi is truly a unique experience. As the students do our course full-time, they have no time to turn a concept over to understand it - they are constantly aware that the next lecture is tomorrow. On one hand, I can image it's stressful. On the other hand, it creates an intense environment where active participation and real-time learning are heavily incentivized. 

I could really take advantage of this increased partitipation to deliver a version of the course that would really only work there. Specifically, we made use of the fact that Digital Electronics, is, fundamentally, logical. Given the right building blocks and a shove in the right direction, you can kind of derive the entire thing yourself. If you know how logic gates work, and you know how to add numbers in binary, it doesn't take much thought to design adders. If you understand the concept of feedback, it's straightforward to design all the flip flop circuits that we learn about. Enabling 20+ incredibly motivated students to re-derive a lot of the basics of digital logic this way was immensely satisfying.

While the students learnt about flip flop circuits, Cindy and I were learning about Ghananian food and history. I think we made quite the teaching team.

Some quotes from the teaching evals (2024-2025):
------

"This course was critical for me (who doesn't have background in electrical engineering). However, through the lecturers, I was able to do well."

"Not only did Manasa teach, but she also challenged us to think critically while approaching digital electronics problems. After not coming up with viable solutions in the first attempt, she was ready to listen to our ideas while guiding us through the whole process. This appeared to me as an interesting way of learning."

"She exposed us to real-world applications of digital electronics concepts, broadening our perception of the digital world."

"She explains course content well but should not assume everyone in class knows something in particular if a few people have answered. She should talk about it a bit regardless."

"It was so nice being taught by you and Cindy; I wish your friendship grows stronger"

"I am having FUN!!"

<!-- Headings are cool
======

You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------ -->